#labels minutesofmeeting
=A dream meeting to see what we want in KFF v1.0=

_*Attending*_: Jan Aertsen, Harris Ward, Juan Jose Ortilles, Ricardo Pires, André Simões, Matt Casters

_*Main topic*_: have a dream meeting to see what we want in KFF v1.0

_*Discussed topics*_:
 * Add templated solutions/transformations to solve specific tasks.
 * Scripting: preferable not in KFF, solve the thing itself in PDI.
 * Plugins: promote plugins as standard steps.
 * Contribute to PDI directly to get things fixed.
 * Standardization: should facilitate, not block.  
 * Parameter files:  use the KETTLE_HOME directory to point to the correct configuration Andre says he already has a script to do it.
 * Using JNDI to configure database connections? Some objections were raised.  This is a topic to flesh out.

 * Directory structure:
 * KFF Configuration: some discussion on why it is needed vs scripting, another topic to  flesh out.
 * Scheduling: it stops with an error now if another job is still running, is this desired?
 * Batch processing is stopped: clean up of logging tables, restartability, Andre can perhaps present the solution already built perhaps in a next meeting
   Matt will do some brainstorming around dependencies

 * Quick-start guides: Juan felt a bit lost during the first tries with KFF.  

 * How it should work: drop the code in a folder and it should work.
 * A few topics for the mailing lists:
  * Configuration and connections
  * Logging and error handling (reporting on it, XLS, dashboard, etc)
  * Ease of use TODO lists

 * * _*Next meeting*_: TBD

 * Matt wants to get a release going in Jan-2011
 * Andre wants more action, less talk.