#summary How to get started with KFF, running one single environment

= Introduction =
This quick start guide shows you how to get started with KFF, installing, configuring and launching it for just one single environment.

The first section (Real quick start) just goes for minimal modifications to get started. It will run the template project just as is. It is intended for evaluation purposes. For a more custom configuration, check out the next section (Quick start).

= Real quick start =
== Step 1 - Download and install KFF ==
Download KFF from the downloads section (, for the moment get the kff directory from svn) and place it in a directory /kff on the root of (one of) your disk(s). The final directory structure should look like [StandardsDirectory this].

Remark: You can also install KFF in other locations, see below.

== Step 2 - Download PDI (3.2.3 or above) and install ==
Unzip PDI into the /kff/software/pdi/3.2.3/ (for version 3.2.3).

== Step 3 - [http://code.google.com/p/kettle-franchise/downloads/detail?name=kff-plugins.jar&can=2&q= Download the KFF plugins] ==
... and drop it into the libext directory of your PDI installation.

== Step 4 - Configure your local MySQL database ==
Create a database dwh_DEV on your MySQL machine with username dwh_DEV and pwd kff.

== Step 5 - Modify the custom KFF launch scripts ==
=== Modify kff_spoon_launcher.sh ===
You find the script under /kff/projects/templates/datawarehouse/

Set PROJECT_KETTLE_VERSION_DEV to the right path of your PDI installation. 

{{{
PROJECT_KETTLE_VERSION_DEV=/kff/software/pdi/3.2.3
}}}

Idem dito set PROJECT_JAVA_VERSION_DEV to point to your java installation.

{{{
PROJECT_JAVA_VERSION_DEV=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.6.0-openjdk/jre/bin/java
}}}

= Still quick ... but more custom configuration =

== Custom install directory ==

== Create your own project ==