#summary How to get started with KFF, running just the provided (empty) data warehouse template

= Introduction =
This quick start guide shows you how to get started with KFF, installing, configuring and launching the provided template.  This quick start section just applies minimal modifications to get started. It will run the template project just as is. It is intended for evaluation purposes. For a more custom configuration, check out the next section (Quick start).

= Installing =
== Step 1 - Download and install KFF ==
Download KFF from the downloads section (, for the moment get the kff directory from svn) and place it in a directory /kff on the root of (one of) your disk(s). The final directory structure should look like [StandardsDirectory this].

Remark: You can also install KFF in other locations, see the section [QuickStartSingleEnvironment Setting up a single (development) environment ].

== Step 2 - Download PDI (3.2.3 or above) and install ==
Unzip PDI into the /kff/software/pdi/3.2.3/ (for version 3.2.3).

Remark: Looking for 3.2.3? Get it [http://kettle3.s3.amazonaws.com/pdi-ce-3.2.3-r11081.zip here].

== Step 3 - [http://code.google.com/p/kettle-franchise/downloads/detail?name=kff-plugins.jar&can=2&q= Download the KFF plugins] ==
... and drop it into the libext directory of your PDI installation.

== Step 4 - Configure your local MySQL database ==
Create a database dwh_DEV on your MySQL machine with username dwh_DEV and pwd kff.

== Step 5 - Modify the custom KFF launch scripts ==
=== Modify kff_spoon_launcher.sh ===
You find the script under /kff/projects/templates/datawarehouse/

Set PROJECT_KETTLE_VERSION_DEV to the right path of your PDI installation. 

{{{
PROJECT_KETTLE_VERSION_DEV=/kff/software/pdi/3.2.3
}}}

Idem dito set PROJECT_JAVA_VERSION_DEV to point to your java installation.

{{{
PROJECT_JAVA_VERSION_DEV=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.6.0-openjdk/jre/bin/java
}}}

=== Modify kff_kitchen_launcher.sh ===
Similar, set KFF_PDI_VERSION and KFF_JVM_VERSION to point to PDI and Java. Additionally fill in the hostname (replace Jaybox) of your local machine for the start up of PDI.

Sample
{{{
case $(hostname) in
"Jaybox")
KFF_BASE_DIR=/kff ;
KFF_LIFECYCLE=DEV ; 
KFF_PDI_VERSION=/kff/software/pdi/3.2.3 ; 
KFF_JVM_VERSION=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.6.0-openjdk/jre/bin/java ;;
}}}

== Step 6 - Run ==
Run kff_kitchen_launcher.sh

= Results =
to be completed